So continuing on from the last video
when we're talking about Final
we've created this base class and
we've created some base code to
store passwords and to encrypt it.
So far so good but
the problem could exist if someone
overrides the store password
method in a subclass.
So what could potentially happen
we'll just go back to the class.
So as you can see in a store password
method, we've got just a message saying
saving password as this
starting encrypted password and
obviously encrypted password was encrypted
when we call the encryptDecrypt.
But we're actually just quite we're
just using the this starting encrypt
password variable.
But what would prevent us for
someone from extending this class and
then changing that Method itself.
So, to show you how to do that,
I'm going to create a new class.
I'm going to call it extended password.
And what we are going to do with that,
is we're going to extend from password.
And we are going to do
something like private ent.
Decrypted password.
>> [NOISE]
>> And
then we're going to create the constructor
and the constructor is going to.
Actually we'll select none from that.
Then we'll add one manually, password.
But it's gonna draw a super password but
then we're gonna do this dot
decrypted password equals password.
Noting when I'm saying password and
not the encrypted one.
And then just to show that
we're going to override
the store password method and then instead
of calling super what we're going to do
which of course we can do in any
method that we override Print out
site and password S past dot
encrypted password, like so.
So you can see we're done there and
we can then run that going back to
our main class and we just change
the reference there from password to
password to make that extended password.
Extend the password when they all have
the same settings there other than that.
And when we run it, and
we get the sam results
as seen all the options file when we're
actually, when we're trying to get access.
So the let me in method two files and
exceeds on the last time.
But the important point now is seven
password as 674312 which of course was
The original password that
we passed in this method on
line 18 as you can see there.
So consequently you can see how this
is completely changed the security
of the original password class.
And it's compromised it effectively
because we've now got a decrypted password
that's potentially out in the wild.
Now this is where something like
would be really, really useful.
We could close down the wrong window.
We go back to password And
all we'd need to do there is
put a final on storePassword.
So public final void password.
And once we do that,
if we have a look in ExtendedPassword,
suddenly we've got an error
there as you can see.
In the error if we highlight it.
So looking at the error it cannot override
store password because method is final.
I have it written method is final.
So you can see how it's
very useful to selectively
make some methods final in your classes if
you know they're gonna be overwritten or
there's a chance they're
gonna be overwritten and
that's really also a reminder for
you when you're looking at the code.
"That you've made final for a reason.
In this particular case, with a method
would normally store a password, what
we're saying is it's important that this
is the final the message in all our code.
Saving is going to be at that point,
and we're not allowing
that to being overwritten.
So at the end of the previous lecture,
I said that there's more than one aspect
aesthetic that we needed to look at, and
we needed to understand final to do so.
So now that we've looked at final"
We want to look at the static
equivalent of constructors.
So we've obviously got a standard
constructor that you've seen throughout
the course quite a few times.
What I'm talking about now again is the
static equivalent of those constructors
and they're called static
equivalization blocks.
So constructors, as you probably know,
because I've used them so
much through this course,
are instance constructors.
So they're not static,
they'll be executed every time we
create a new instance of a class.
And we've seen that in operation,
as I mentioned, countless times.
Now the static equivalent of that is
a static initialization block, as I said.
The difference there is that
block is only executed once
when the class is first
loaded into the project.
So it's not often at all that you'd
need to create a class constructor which
is sort of what a static
initialization block is
even though that's not really
the correct term for it.
Now the reason that I'm mentioning it is
because the static final variable must be
initialized by the time or
static initialization blocks terminate.
So in the same way that we can set the
value of a final field in the constructor
we can also assign the value
of a static final variable
in the static initialization block.
And I just want to confirm that
static initialization blocks
are an advanced feature and
there's rarely a case for you to use them.
So for an example I'm not gonna
create a program that uses them.
What we'll do is we'll just print out
some text showing the program flow.
So you can see that when each
part of the program is executed.
So what I'll also do is assign
a value to the static final
variable using an initialization block and
we'll just see how this will work.
So what I'm going to do,
let's come back here to this class and
I'll just comment that out so we don't
have any errors in our code any more.
We're gonna create a new
class We can call it SIB for
static initialization block test.
Okay and we're gonna do a public static
final stream and we'll call that owner.
Now we're gonna type this weird syntax
that you've probably never seen before.
Static owner equals Tim.
And we're gonna print out
SIBTest static initialization.
block called, like so.
And we can also create a constructor.
And that's going to be, whoops.
SIB constructor called.
Down here.
Static I put two equals there for
some reason.
And then static will print out second
initialization block called And public.
We'll just create a method.
Call it some method.
And we'll put some method called.
Like so.
And that is aesthetic initialization
blocks at using aesthetic keyword.
And follow up on the actual code
block as you can see there.
So there can be as many aesthetic
initialization blocks as you like.
And I've got two in this
test Class to show you and
they're called in the order
they're declared in the class.
So as you can see I've put
one in the constructor and
one after it but that's not really
good practice because it could lead
people to expect the constructor to
be called before the second block
which isn't the case as I'm about to
show you so let's go back to main now.
Let's just comment out this class,
this other class code which
we don't need any more.
I'll inclement the last
brace which we do need that,
and those two are Brought some code here.
So probably start with main method call.
Now with an test,
test equals view this IP test.
Test.submethod.
Then we can put owner is
pass SRP test .owner.
You can see what we're doing there.
So now if we run this.
I can see that the SIB study
initialization block was called first.
Then the second initialization
block was called.
Then the constructor was called.
Then the sub method was called.
And then obviously the last line was
system.outSIBtest.owner The owners is Tim,
airport was actually called.
So and again,
I'm surprised was called first, but
the interesting thing here is that
both the static initialization
blocks were called before the constructor,
and in fact, they're called before any
non-static methods including
the constructor are called to be correct.
And finally, you saw that when we
checked that the string owner does have
the expected value Tim that was set in the
initialization block Now on line ten so
you can see that that
static code was executed.
So now you've seen, again, static and
final before in this course.
I didn't really discuss what they
meant in the past, so look out for
the use now in all the Subsequent
examples as you work through the course.
And now that you've been through this
section you'll have a much better idea of
why they're used and what the implications
of using them actually are.
So that's it,
that's the end of the final videos.
It's also the end of this section,
so we'll move on to a new
section in the next video.